All right.
>> I'm not gonna start AI companion. No,
I'm thinking.
>> All right, everyone. Thank you for
joining the board of finance August
27th, 2025 meeting. We'll call that to
order. Um, and
we will go ahead and cite the the pledge
of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag the flag
of the United States of America
>> and to the to the republic for it for it
stands.
>> One nation one nation
>> under God
>> indivisible
>> with liberty
>> liberty andice for all
>> for all.
>> Okay, great. Moving on to item number
two on the agenda is public speak. So, I
see that we have Diane Grenier here who
I knew was going to join us. So, you're
all set, Diane.
>> Thank you. Um, my question for you to
start with, I I have an issue that I
want to discuss about um residents
making donations to a border commission.
And I spoke to um Bill D. Roger and he
was going to ask to see if that could be
put on the agenda, an addition. Um, do
you want me to speak now or wait until
you bring it up with the meeting?
>> I think she should probably speak now,
Bill. Right.
>> We can add under new business, but we
could hear from her now, I suppose.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's not a big crowd. So,
I' I'd like to hear from you now, Diane,
because then I know I'm following
protocol and then we will add it at the
proper time.
>> Okay. Um, it it it's a a basic question.
has come up before and I've spoke to a
couple of you already about it and the
the issue is
how after after the budget is already
done
July has come and gone um if a border
commission has a a project or something
or residents want to donate to that how
do they do that? We just had an um an
incident where the community garden um
they um made a a a garden an extra
garden bed in July and
Jeff Ballard who was chairman of the
garden committee um organized up the the
lumber, the screws, the brackets, the
the dirt and whatever came to about
$250, a small amount of money. Um, we
went online and asked people if they
would like to donate for that and we
were told that we cannot
send that to the town office building to
the treasur's office. Um, they can't
handle it. It has to be done outside.
So, he is collecting the receipts and
stuff. He puts them in a coffee can in
his garage. Um, that doesn't seem to be
the right way to do this. I mean, it is
a a town function, a town entity, and
there should be some mechanism where
residents can donate. We've had that
issue before. Um, in the coming this
spring, I talked to um Andover Country
Gardens. They would like to donate um uh
some black eyed susans to the community
garden to use as a fundraiser. We would
sell them. We would get money. And I
don't think the money should be going in
a coffee can in Jeff Ballard's garage.
Um, not that I have a problem with Jeff,
but just that's not the way that we
should be doing business in the town.
Um, I understand that uh for some reason
or other there's no way that this can be
done. This is way too hard. This is and
I know in the past I was chairman of the
Norton Commission and um every year
residents make a check out to the Norton
Commission for an unspecific um unific
>> um reason.
>> Yeah. An item and they use it as they
will. It could be for backpacks. It
could be a scholarship. Nobody knows
what they're using it for. It just goes
into their general line item. Have you
uh the library did a the mural project.
It was uh several thousand dollars. We
had resident no tax dollars. It was all
done by residents. They sent checks to
the town hall. They put it in some
account. When we needed to pay the
electrician, we presented the bill. The
the treasurer wrote a check, paid him.
Um I've also heard things like the board
of finance
only does the budget. That's your job.
you make the budget and that's all you
do. Um, and it's like, okay, except I
know last month or the month before you
were able to manage to get a line item
for the Diane Grineer scholarship with
the Norton Commission. Um, I don't know
what you did, how you did it, but it it
happened. So, that's not a budget item,
but you were able to reach beyond just
making the budget. Um, also on that that
point, let me just say this. I made a
donation of $1,000. I wrote a check to
the um town of Andover for the Diane
Grineer scholarship. It was um made in
May. That check still has not been
cashed. I I know you now have a line
item. I don't know where
the the check has not been cashed and
this is now almost September. But
anyways, so what what I'm asking you is
to review this and basically find a way
that residents can donate to the town. I
mean, this is just it's good for the
town. Residents feel good. There were
lots of residents that wanted to um
donate to this black eyed susan thing
and we had to say, you know, stop. You
know, we've got enough money. We don't
know what to do with any extra money. We
can't take it. Um that doesn't seem like
the right thing, you know, and somehow,
and I don't know what the the rules are.
I'm glad the treasurer is here. uh she
can explain why you can't do it and I'm
hoping that you or the board of
selectmen or somehow some group of
people can get together and fix it. It
doesn't require a charter review
committee. I don't know what it is. It
shouldn't be that hard. It shouldn't be
that hard to let residents make a
donation. Um, I talked to Carol Lee this
morning and she says that they've had
the same problem in the past where um,
people want to donate to the rec
commission and you know the town can't
take the money. So that that's my issue.
Um, I don't know if you have any
question be happy to answer them but
it's basically
people making donations to the town for
a town thing through a board or
commission should not be in a coffee can
in somebody's garage. that's just seems
like there's an auditing uh that's just
not right. So that that's that's my
issue. So I appreciate you taking the
time to um address that and see h how we
can make that happen.
So thank you Diane. Thanks so much for
taking the time to explain it. And like
you said, we'll we'll add it to the
agenda at the proper time. Um Rob's in
now. So I don't know what happened, Rob.
They had to I
>> I know what happened. I my mistake.
There were two agendas
>> and I was going off the the first one
>> and when I finally got to the second one
and meanwhile my computer then decided
it had to update Zoom. So it just it was
like error after error but I'm here now.
>> Well, welcome. Yeah, we we played it
safe this time with the passwords and
the login so that I could definitely get
in. I didn't want to take any chances,
so we went with a different their backup
Zoom or whatever. So, okay. So, Rob has
joined us. So, I know that Well, Wall-E,
you're a resident. Would you like to do
any public speak?
>> No, I'm just here to answer questions
later. Thank you.
>> Thank you. And Cheryl, did you have any
public speak? I know you're here in the
role of treasurer.
>> All right. Thank you. No, I don't. I'm
sorry. No, I don't.
>> No, you're fine. You're fine. Thank you.
I just No procedure I should ask
everyone. All right. So, now we're going
to move down to item three on the
agenda, which is changes or additions to
our agenda. Bill, I know you have one.
Go ahead.
>> As you all know, Diane would like me to
add this item to the agenda concerning
making donations specifically this time
for the community garden uh to do some
work on the garden. Uh next spring they
want to have a spring fundraiser. Uh
plants will be donated from the Andover
Garden Center. I think that's the name
of it. On route 6 and uh we just want to
figure out a way that donations can be
handled in the town. Um so whenever the
appropriate time is I'll speak more on
that as well.
>> Okay, sounds good. So I'm going to add
that under new business item C. Um,
we'll call it
I don't know discussion on donations to
the town because it can be a wideopen
process and Cheryl is here and Cheryl
can you know we can ask a couple
questions of Cheryl at the time too. I
know it's come up in the past. So
that'll be item 5C.
Um, yes. Okay. Anyone else with any
agenda additions
or subtraction
changes? Okay, moving on. We're going to
go right into old business, which is
review of budget to actual. I know we
had that included in our packet. I don't
know if anyone has any questions on
that. I don't at this moment.
>> No.
>> All right. We're new, you know, in the
new year. So, seeing none or not seeing
anybody's hands raised or anything, then
we'll go into
>> Wait, what one thing I did notice um
there was no check register this time.
Does that mean there was
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, there was no check register. So,
that that was my only comment. Um
I don't know why. Maybe it was an
oversight. Maybe no checks were written.
I don't know.
>> Yeah, I was thinking maybe it was too
too early or because I don't know.
Maybe.
>> Yeah,
>> cuz Eric's not here. Somehow another
didn't get added.
>> Duly Yeah, Dulie noted. I know that they
put the agenda together a little bit
early this time. They send it to Mark
and myself very early.
>> They'll probably
>> Yeah, they'll probably just add it to
next month maybe. Sure.
>> No, but it's good that you brought it
up. It's of record that we brought it
up. So hopefully, right, it would come
next next month.
Okay. So, moving on to item 4B, old
business, the um for the year ending
fiscal year ending 2025, the year-end
budget transfers discussion
um that we had been provided in our
packet. And then, um I know Cheryl's
here.
I know that this has this is a lot less
than we used to see now with the new
rule to the transfers as far as they can
transfer without us approving them
within departments. So say if public
works had some kind of overage they can
take care of that without getting our
approval. I hope I'm Cheryl Am I saying
that?
>> Absolutely. Absolutely no.
>> There are no transfers between
departments without board of finance
approval.
>> No, I said within the same department.
I'm sorry.
>> No, no,
>> no.
>> Even if it's with I thought we had
passed a change that say the town
clerk's office under like
uh supplies and mailings or something of
that nature. We didn't have to approve
within the same department. I, you know,
if it came out or if it sounded wrong. I
meant I know that we have to have them
approved,
you know, if it's town clerk in uh tax
collector or town clerk and public
works.
Under the charter, it states that
line item transfers at the end of the
fiscal year only need to be done in the
event that the department is over
budget. Specific line items within the
budget can be over and specific line
items within the budget can be under.
The net effect has to be under budget if
so on the items that I have presented in
requesting transfers those particular
departments are over which is why I've
grouped them town office building old
firehouse actuary auditor the
departments are over not not we don't
take one thing from one line item and
move it to another line item whatever it
comes in for coding if it says it's
office supplies
That's where it goes. If this has
electricity, that's where it goes. We
don't move them in between
um departments. But these are all the
items for the departments that are over
budget.
>> Yeah,
>> thank you for correcting me, Cheryl. I
knew Yeah,
>> you said it in the accounting correct
language. I think my mind was thinking
the same thing, so I apologize for the
way I presented it, but thank you for
your correction.
duly noted. Does anyone have any
questions on um
>> what we were presented with?
>> I can try.
>> Go ahead.
>> Do you want to bring it up again?
>> Got it. I can try.
>> I was just going I was just going to say
I I find it a little surprising that
they were over some of the items that
were over were salaries because
I mean obviously public works it was
$36. Not a big deal but I I find like
you can expect oil because you can't you
can't always properly predict that. So I
was a little surprised to see that. I
mean just really a comment I guess. I
don't know if what would any comment Um,
Liz, I think possibly you have overtime,
right? So, that could be where that
comes in. You know, PL when they do
stuff like that.
>> Other than that one $36 thing that was
salary.
>> What
>> was there any other salary stuff besides
I'm looking at the document now. It's
just really small. There was 36 bucks
for public works salary. Was there any
other salary stuff or was that the only
one?
>> Yeah, zoning agent salary $6,200.
>> Oh. under the building.
>> Oh god. Yeah, the first thing. Sorry, I
saw building department and wasn't
reading it properly.
>> Huh?
>> Yeah.
>> I find that a little curious.
>> The
Cheryl the salary amount that came in
when they the contract that's that's
what it came out to. I double check
every single
line prior to presenting
and the way the contracts come in, the
way the payroll comes in. We have new
people coming in, we have old people
going out. Public works, we had some
large acrewed payrolls that had to be
paid as staff left. They're allowed to
hold over PTO and vacation and sick
time. They're under the contracts. They
need to be paid. So, I had to pay them.
The zoning, the engineering, we have a
lawsuit that's going on. So, that's part
of what's going in over there.
The ground care, we had extra mowing for
that.
The clerk wages, you're going to see
every single clerk wage for the most
part. We have not been budgeting
sufficient funds for any of the clerk uh
salaries. They spend time at the
meetings andor
um doing the recording and then doing up
the minutes and things of that nature.
So we are continuing constantly to go
over that
um election salaries. Now, you'll notice
that really and truly the only two are
the for salaries is the zoning agent
which was over by $6,200
and then public works $36.
>> And then it's the clerk wages, another
clerk wages.
And then that's that's that was all
there is for for wages that were over.
If you're looking on when on elections,
those aren't over. That's where I want
to take the money. I want to reduce the
line item to fund the other um budget
items that have been overspent. There's
only in essence two.
>> Cheryl, I only want to interrupt just
for one minute to remind everyone. I
think during the year Eric had told us
that there was a changeover with the
zoning agent and they were bringing on
the new man
>> and so I think there was a time when
they were paying two people.
>> That's exactly right.
>> I think is one that's exactly right.
>> Yeah. And I think I remember I know the
old gentle gentleman um but I think
Wayne is the new one. So I think there
was a time they were so that's probably
why it's a big chunk. Um we'll have to
look into
>> that makes sense.
>> Yep. And then and Cheryl was just
getting to it with the um where she took
the money from. It makes sense because
we had a little of overage in the
employee benefits. So we were able to
move that. You had money left over,
Cheryl, is what you're saying.
>> Correct.
>> Right.
>> Yes. And all the credits, those are
monies that we had left over. So if you
look at the second tab,
>> I when I sent it over, hopefully you got
it. There was the the Excel spreadsheet
>> and then there was the the actual
transfer. If you click over to the
budget to actual, it shows you exactly
where all the numbers came from, who's
under, who's over. I gave the exact
detail so the board would have the
availability to review it.
>> Thank you. I was able to review the
Excel sheet. I did not look at the tab
below, but I will do that after the
meeting. Um because truthfully I thought
this was a pretty short list. I don't
know how anyone else feels with the big
budget that we have. Um
does anyone have questions for Cheryl on
anything specific that they're looking
at or seeing?
Cheryl, were we and I will look at it.
Um I apologize for not doing that ahead.
I thought I was clicking around on
everything. Was the election salaries
did we have I don't know if you have it
in front of you right now. How much did
we overfund that or how much did we have
left over that we were able to move the
9,000 from there?
>> Yeah, I can get that.
>> Thank you.
because that's always one that we're not
sure of and we try we're trying to um
>> correct. We budgeted 22,000 for election
salaries. It only came in at $12,4874.
So we had additional $9,512.36
that was available for um other
departments and I like even numbers so
I'm transferring the nine. But you never
know how many I mean how many budget
meetings there's going to be, how many
other special elections there's going to
be, how many town meetings there's going
to be. It's
>> right.
>> A budget is a guess.
>> Yeah.
And then the custodian line at the
bottom there, the 4199B, we were over we
had the 10,000 like you said with your
even numbers.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
When you go down to the custodian,
we had budgeted
27,291.38.
We spent or what was spent on custodial
$16,57828
leaving $10,71310.
>> Thank you for the info. Okay.
If no one has any further questions for
Cheryl. Cheryl, we would have to make a
motion to accept the transfers as
presented.
>> Yes, please. And then vote that I can
make the transfers.
>> I'll make the motion to accept the
transfers as presented by our assistant
treasurer.
>> And I will second it.
>> Okay. The only thing I'll change is by
the treasurer.
>> Oh, I'm sorry. By the treasurer. He's
the official.
>> I'm sorry.
>> Yeah.
All right. So, the motion is on the
table to assist, you know, to um accept
the transfers as presented by our
treasurer. Um we'll call it. Is there
any further discussion?
>> No.
>> Okay. Then I'll call for a vote if
everyone
>> I'm an I. Joanne Hbert.
>> Hi.
>> Bob's an I. Liz Liz Lok is an I. Bill D.
Rogers is an I. Louise Goodwin and
Kimberly Persan is an I. So the motion
passes
6 to zero with those present tonight at
the meeting.
Okay, Cheryl. So we're set with that.
Cheryl, are you able to stay with us for
the further discussion? I mean, there
are a couple financial things coming up
in the next um
part.
>> Yes, I'll stay for a while. Yes.
>> Thank you. I think we can get through
it. um pretty quickly because I know
we've touched on it before. I'm just
glad Wallally's here. I was trying to
figure out what we needed to do
precisely at the meeting. Okay, so that
has passed. So, we're moving on to the
section five of new business. Um so, in
our packet, as you saw, and I know we've
discussed um before,
um they sent us information.
I think the first item that I'll talk to
the way it goes is that SCBA and I
apologize for not knowing um the term if
there is one. I know it's been on the
table that they wanted to purchase these
new items for the fire department or
fire commission. Um, and Eric had asked
for final estimates and we received it.
Um,
you know, we received the final
um quote from this MEES company, I
believe. So, we also got the information
that the current account balance in the
fire department equipment fund is
$567,673.
Um, this year we added into the capital
fund 137,000.
Uh, oh, am I
okay? There's two things on one paper. I
I then it went right into the truck
purchase. So, I panicked thinking I was
talking right. So, let's talk to that
first. Wally, do you mind joining us in
the meeting? We really appreciate you
being here. I know they talked about it
at the board of selectman meeting and I
thought that they finally passed it. So,
what do you need from the board of
finance tonight on the SCBA?
>> Okay, before I get into that, just one
comment. You talked about the overage on
the registars's budget. We had a
surplus. We had an unanticipated
receipt of $13,000 from the state of
Connecticut to help with early voting
that we had not anticipated.
That's part of what offset the voting
line item why there was money returned.
This year, we're hoping for another
4,000, but again, when you create the
budget,
>> we don't know that the state's going to
have these grants available. Mhm.
>> So, we have to budget in case the state
decides to cut the money off.
>> Of course. Thank you for Yeah. Thank you
for clarification on that. I know you're
Yep. in the know.
>> Okay. As far as the air packs, we're
looking to replace air packs that were
purchased in the 1990s.
We're have run in in the past couple
years of extensive repairs.
They're not to the point of being
unreliable, but we don't ever want to
get to that point because these are
lifesaving pieces of equipment for the
firefighters.
We went out and originally we talked
about purchasing 20 air packs.
Because the truck purchase is coming in
the same year, we decided to cut that
back to just replace the number of units
we currently have at 16 with the
purchase of 32 masks because some of the
firefighters that are Scott qualified
are actually issued a personal mask. So,
they have their own mask that's fit to
them when they go to put on an air pack.
The others that are on the trucks are a
standard size and the total package is
$163,20.
It was approved much earlier this year
through CIP
and we had hoped that it would move from
CIP to the board of selectmen and to the
board of finance, but for whatever
reason that never happened. So, now
we're into August and into the new
budget year, and we'd like authorization
to make the purchase.
And I can answer any questions you want.
SCBA stands for self-contained breathing
apparatus.
>> Thank you.
>> Not to be confused with scuba, which is
self-contained underwater breathing
apparatus. Different animal.
>> Go ahead, Rob.
>> Yeah. So, I just I'm going back from my
memories of when we talked about this at
CIP. We had talked about buying the 20.
You've backed off to 16. Um, what was
the price tag that we thought we were
going to spend versus what we're
spending now? We're spending 163 now.
Uh, were we looking at a similar number
or was it a little higher because we've
cut four out.
>> It was over $220,000.
Rob,
>> that's what I thought that we had
approved. I remembered it being 200ish.
Okay. So, this is actually less money
because we didn't get the four extras.
You you wanted to originally wanted to
have those four spares if memory serves
in case some piece of equipment needed
to be tinkered with you wouldn't be down
one.
>> That's correct.
>> Right.
So did board of selectman
bless this or where are we at with them?
>> Did approve it.
>> Oh our package. It's in a package that
has selectman passing it.
>> I have a question on that. Wally.
>> Yeah. I don't see any uh verbiage about
any warranties on these items. Should
they should that be noted on the quote?
>> Most
of these items have at least a one-year
minimum. Most of the time it's two to
three, but they just quoted the actual
cost and the type units that we're
purchasing in this quote.
>> Okay. And to be honest, these air packs,
like I said, we purchased the original
ones in 1990 and we're still using them.
>> So, they are reliable and they do last,
but they have pieces and parts that do
wear out over 30 years of lifespan.
Wally, from what I remember, um, because
there was a day that Liz and I were out
in the field and we did, the town people
can know this too since this is a
meeting that we did stop into the fire
department on a various things that we
went to check in and see. And so the
person that we did visit with when we
were talking about this said that all of
the and and I'm not all of the current
ones that you have. How many would you
have in there now are still working?
>> All 16 y
>> are still functional,
>> right? What what will we do? Understand
that this has been a long time coming.
It's been approved. Is there tradeins?
Is there anything that goes back with
the ones that you currently have that
are still working and that the town has
repaired? Is there any kind of
>> most part? No one wants
>> Yeah.
>> 30-y old equipment.
>> Okay.
>> The only option is donating to the
Eastern Connecticut Fireman's Training
School that would assume any liability
with any issues with them. But there's
really no trade in value because of the
age of the units.
[Music]
>> Okay. I just didn't. So, thank you so
much for all of this.
Does everyone feel I know other people
have listened to the board of selectman
meetings too. I just didn't get a
directive on what to do with this for
tonight. I don't know like usually Eric
would say, you know, I reached out for
it today, you know, and and
you know, Mark and I and Cheryl was
involved in the email. I just wanted to
make sure we knew what we were doing.
Are you expecting I I has anyone heard?
Are we expected to approve this tonight
or are we It's already really been
approved and the board of finances just
saying they agree. I just want to do the
right thing.
>> What I got from Eric the last time I
spoke to him before he went on vacation
was that it's gone through the
selectman. It's up to the board of
finance to make the final approval to
spend the money and we can order the
units.
>> Kim, go ahead. I would like to make a
motion to approve the purchase of the
units.
>> Second.
>> Okay. And uh there's a motion on the
table to approve the purchase of the
units according to the quote that we
have in our packet.
>> Correct.
>> From MEES. Is that the right company?
Wall-E
>> Municipal Emergency Services in
Waterford, Connecticut. Yes.
>> Okay.
um to the total amount of the $163,120
per the quote. Um any further
discussion? Did I say that? All right,
we're up for a vote. All in favor say I.
>> I. I.
>> Okay, so the person um doing the
minutes, you have a six to zero um
approval of this. Um, so everyone
present has voted yes to this motion. So
the motion passes six to zero.
>> Before we move on, actually just
something occurred to me. Can I ask you
Wally? Um, are you thinking going
forward of supplementing with four more
in another year
>> to get to your 20?
>> Not within the next year. Possibly
within the next two we'd be looking
possibly to purchase one or two more. If
we have money within our operating
budget
to be able to accomplish this out of
firefighting equipment, we might do it
under that rather than coming back and
asking since it would only be one or
two.
>> Okay. Thanks.
>> Yep.
>> I have one one more question and I know
it's after that point, but
>> um it it's on the quote. I just noticed
that it said expires July 31st. Are we
okay?
>> They're holding it for us.
>> Okay. We can't wait forever basically.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Pass tonight. Thank you, Wally, on that.
And then moving down to our next agenda
item, which is
I know it's about the truck. I just want
to read it though. Update on the fire
department squad purchase. Um, we know
we've all heard about this as well. The
truck's been on order. We'll let you
speak to it in a minute, Wall-E, but we
got the um the resolution from the town
in our packet where it was approved. I
know we have a page showing the
financing from Mnt I believe um the
leasing
information.
Um so go ahead, Wally. Can you further
comment on that? Is this just an update
for us?
>> Okay. The truck
>> normally Eric would provide it. So, I
want to make sure
>> truck is sitting in North Haven right
now,
>> waiting to be delivered.
>> We're just waiting to have it paid for.
At the board of selectman's meeting, if
you listen to
>> Dennis O'Brien, there were some
questions about the contract for the
financing
>> that he was supposed to work with the
bank to straighten out. But the truck is
in North Haven. It's ready to be
delivered, but until they get a check,
we don't get the fire truck. So,
hopefully if they can work out the
details with the financing of this, we
can get them to issue a check and we can
get the truck.
>> Thank you for that update.
>> Cheryl, do you have anything further to
add on the financing part of it or are
you
>> The financing is ready to go. We are
waiting for the town attorney to approve
the lease, which we are still waiting.
Everything's set. The financing is
ready. We have sufficient money in the
fire department's um cash reserves.
We're we're ready to go. We're just
waiting on the attorney's approval for
the lease and then for the first
selectman to sign off. I I'm I know that
the firehouse is waiting, but there's
there's nothing else that I can do until
the attorney provides the document. And
I've I've reiterated that to the bank.
They are aware that that's what we're
waiting for.
>> Okay. Thank you for that. That pretty
much gave us the update that we need. Um
does anyone have any questions for
Wall-E while he's there? I think he
summed it up. Cheryl did a good job
letting us know where it's at. Thank you
all for the update on that.
Okay.
Um now we're going to move on to new
business item C. the way to collect
donations
um you know for the town you know when
>> so on behalf of Diane I guess in my mind
I was sitting here after we talked and
thinking if I died tomorrow and I left
my will 10 acres of land that I own in
town can I donate that 10 acres of land
or if I died and left a million dollars
to the town of the town say no you can't
we don't accept donations I mean it just
sounds silly that we don't accept
donations. I mean, I think people have
donated town land, money, things in the
past. Why can't this be done, I guess,
is my question for Cheryl. Why can't we
create a a line item?
>> A fund, right? It would have to be
>> a fund that goes under that department.
It's a line item that says donations to
community garden. Uh,
>> so I guess, like I say, I was sitting
there thinking, does the town really
not, if I want to leave a million
dollars to the town, I couldn't do it? I
think we do accept those. I think the
question is what you're donating it for.
Like does the town run the community
garden?
>> It's got a line item in the budget,
doesn't it?
>> Does it? Oh, I I can't remember off the
top of my head. Sorry.
>> If we if we are funding it anyway, then
I Yeah, I kind of agree with you. Um the
only the only question I had about this
was whether or not it's a town function.
Other than that, like I don't have any
objection. Whatever. Yeah,
>> I mean I agree with Rob, but there's
some questions about it.
>> So, Cheryl, do you mind enlightening us?
I know that it's not we can't add it on
the budget side, but are we allowed to
have an open fund? You know, that
if donations came into the town and we
already have an existing fund, are we
able to have money collected?
So
the funds within a budget. So don't get
confused the budget with funds that are
outside. They're they're outside of our
budget. So with the budget process,
>> yeah,
>> we anticipate revenue. We anticipate
expenditures,
right? So the revenue coming in normally
is from services. We collect fees. We
collect taxes. We receive fines,
penalties, things of that nature for the
building. We um
we get state grants. Those funds are all
coming in and they're all for a purpose.
Then we have our expenditures. And
basically, if you we budgeted $22,000
for a line item, but we only spent
$10,000 on the line item, that $12,000
does not get carried forward to the next
fiscal year. It returns to fund balance.
It's not available for to be used for
something else. So, in order to try to
even attempt to put donations
within the budget, which I don't believe
that the auditors would ever bless, what
happens if they don't get spent? They're
gone within the budget function. I have
no mechanism in which to hang on to
funds that are under spent. I I have no
way to do it. So, let's say you
anticipate $1,000 of donations. In order
for it to be a zero impact to the
citizens, meaning we don't want to say
we're going to give the community garden
outside of their normal budget, which
they had for the fiscal year, we're
anticipating $1,000
in donations. So, we need to increase
the expenditure line by $1,000. I need a
mechanism in which to use those funds.
So we say we're going to collect a
th00and we're going to let them spend a
th000. That means it's a zero effect the
fund balance. We're not charging the
citizen. We're not increasing their mill
rate. We're not increasing their taxes.
It's zero. So but let's say we only
collect $500 and they still spend a
th000. Well, now I have affected fund
balance. I've reduced what's available
for future years because I said I was
going to collect a thousand and I didn't
and they spent the thousand. What'sever
in that expenditure line is available to
be spent. I have no way to say no, you
can't spend that. So that's the budget.
If we go over to a fund, the auditor has
already repeatedly stated to us that we
have too many funds. We have too many
little funds within our non- major
special revenue. That's where these are
kept. We have four main funds. We have
the Norton fund, and I'll get to that
after, which is the permanent fund.
Those are trust monies. Those are funds
that were specifically
bequeafded or given to the town for
specific purposes that are driven by the
trust document. How they can be spent?
Can corpus be spent? Can some can only
interest be spent? There's specific
documents. They're permanent. When you
look at the financial statement, it
clearly says unspendable or restricted.
that original contribution or donation,
however you want to say, bequath,
however it came in, can't be spent
without prior permission. And in some
cases, you have to go to the probate
court in order to get permission to
spend the money.
So that's the Norton funds. Then we have
capital reserves.
We have non- major capital projects. And
then we have non- major special revenue
funds which comprises five pages of the
audit report. We have some of them there
that's only $116.
There's no activity. There's a penny a
month in interest income, but I can't
get rid of it because it's something
that came in from previous years.
So, someone's going to donate money.
How do I What is it for? How are we
going to use it?
What can it be used for? Who's going to
approve the use of the funds? Do who do
I have to account to for the use of the
funds? Do I have to ask permission to
use the funds? All of those things
within a grant. Most of our funds, we
get a a lot of money comes in from
grants. Well, the grant says how I spend
the money, how it can be spent. With
donations, h what am I going to do with
the money? How am I going to The town is
not set up to take donations? It's just
not. There's too many requirements
potentially for the use of donations. If
the board wants me to go out and talk to
the auditors again and ask them their
feelings or their position on the town
accepting donations for items of this
nature, I'm happy to do it. I'll send
out a note to Mahoney Sable and I'll ask
Mike and ask him what how he feels. But
other than that, I don't have the means
in which to accept donations.
>> Cheryl, I really appreciate your
in-depth knowledge because then you
spell it out for us. It's not just a
simple no that there are requirements
and having worked with grants before, I
understand you get a document where you
follow it. You're allowed to spend it a
certain way. You have to have approval
for the spending. And I imagine in these
memorialized scholarships or types of
things like that, you're right. If we
collect a pot of donations, there has to
be people that are going to authorize
the funds being spent and all of that.
Um, I'm not saying I'm an expert on what
Cheryl just told us. I think Cheryl just
laid out a very, you know, that's why
she's the treasurer. she understands
that it's not. It seems simple, but
there's so many things that you have to
follow in the town revenue. I'd be okay
with Cheryl going ahead and asking, you
know, our auditors again. Um, and I
wonder if all of us want to open it up
to Diane because I know that these these
things are so important when people want
to donate money for something. And I
know this one was a specific cause. I
think I'm thinking more in memorial
scholarships or things like that.
There's usually a committee that takes
care of those things. Um, comments, I
don't want to monopolize. What does
everybody else think?
>> Well, I guess it's a lot more
complicated than I thought it was. So,
uh, I'll leave it Cheryl's hands to to
make the decision. I I just when I
talked to Diane, it seemed like we won't
take donations really, but I understand
there's more to it. So, um I'm just
going to leave it in Cheryl's hands um
at this point myself.
>> Okay.
>> If if I could please
>> I'm sorry.
>> Go ahead. Go ahead. Yeah.
>> I wanted to answer the uh comment that
was made concerning the check that's
presented. Uh we have repeatedly
responded to the person about the check
that we received. I'm aware of the
check. The check is locked in the safe.
The reason that the check has yet to be
deposited was because I had to first get
permission to set up another non- major
permanent fund
which I came to the board of finance and
it got lost in the shuffle. The board
has finally made a determination that
yes, another fund can be set up. when
we've been meeting um the finance
department was meeting with the bank and
um discussing our accounts and the fact
that we are not receiving a good rate of
return on our town funds. Uh
I brought up to them the five accounts
that comprise
the Norton or the permanent funds and
that it's roughly about 54 52 54,000
and I com presented it to Mnt and asked
them that if I was able to have the
Norton fund agree instead of having five
separate bank accounts to combine them
to one. Still separate it out. It's not
a hard thing. Still keep it separate. I
could get them 2% interest instead of
0.1%
interest. I can't get anybody to
respond. I can't get anybody to answer
or anybody to say that they'll take it
under advisement. That's why the check
hasn't been deposited. Because if I'm
going to combine the funds, if I'm going
to combine those five accounts, I don't
want to set up a brand new account,
account number six, where I potentially
have it open for a month, and then close
it in. I want a decision by the Norton
Commission that no, they don't want to
combine the funds. No, they don't want
to go to 2% interest, and then I'll open
up another fund. But until then, I
thought it was prudent to just keep the
check locked in the safe until a
determination was made. It's locked.
I've told people why it's in there and
they're aware that it's in there. I
don't know what else to do.
>> Thank you, Cheryl. No, that explains it.
>> That would make sense.
>> Yeah, Cheryl. Cheryl,
>> go ahead. I'm on the Norton committee
and I will I know there was some
discussion
>> all of us regarding that. So I'm going
to make sure that I kind of bring that
back up again and make sure we get some
sort of an answer for you.
>> That would be lovely.
>> You're welcome. And thanks for your uh
your explanation. That was very
informative.
>> Thank you.
>> It makes sense.
>> Yes. I I just wanted to say it sounds to
me like maybe
the group, whatever the group is, the
garden club or whatever, that they have
to have almost have their own
little miniature board with their own
treasurer. Um, does does that make
sense, Cheryl? Something that they need
to manage on their own, assuming that it
can't be done the way you said, and it
makes perfect sense to me now when you
explain it. Does does that kind of sound
like what needs to happen?
>> They they did come a gentleman that was
running the the garden came up and said
that they were receiving some some
donations and he wanted to present them
and I said I can't take them because
first off we're not set up for
donations. I said so why don't you set
up a bank account? Set up somebody who's
going to be in charge of them. This is
what they can be spent on. this is what
I'm donating for. I said, instead of
trying to give me $5 or $10 or $50 that
then I have to set up a whole new fund
for it. I have to make an accounting for
it. I have to set up a QuickBooks file
for it. I have to tell the auditors. I
have to set it into the audited
financial statements. Don't get me
wrong, if I have to do it, I'll do it.
If the auditors bless it, I'll do it.
but for for however much it's going to
be
and they can't get them checks whenever
they want them. There's a mechanism, you
know, reimbursements have a mechanism.
You pay for the stuff, you come back,
you bring in the slips. How am I going
to get the money back to you? Was it
approved purchases?
Were they not approved purchases?
There there are checks and balances on
when things get purchased within the
town, which is why I suggested maybe
they set up their own bank account,
>> right?
>> Friends, you know, the friends of the
library have their own bank account. It
doesn't come within the town hall. They
have the library has their own bank
account. Friends of the library, maybe
ours doesn't, but many towns do where
they receive donations. They have their
own board and they take care of it
because it's outside of the town. It's
something that benefits the town, but
it's outside of the town's control.
We gift we've given money for the
community garden just like we do senior
lunch or senior trips or or things of
that nature. There are other
commissions or committees within the
town that receive funds.
This is how much you can spend. Period.
this is how much you can spend. They had
other things outside of that. That was
my suggestion, but I will send a note to
Mike. I'll ask him his opinion and I as
soon as I hear back from them, I will
bring it to the board
and the board can make a decision on how
they would like us to proceed.
>> Thank you, Cheryl. It makes sense. I
mean Diane presented her argument
earlier saying that she wishes we could
take the donations. To me it see it does
kind of seem a little simpler to just
have a small committee that would
receive the donations and be able to
approve. I I have gotten questions in
the past about the community garden
being part of the budget um and what it
is and I know that some board members
had looked into it and brought it, you
know, brought it up before. So, it it
could be a time for something like that.
Well, I think we've addressed it. I
think we've heard both sides of it. Um
I'm ready to table it for now. Um I
think we gave it some good discussion
and then we'll just come back to it in
the future. Hopefully Diane will give us
her opinions at the end in public speak,
but I'm ready to move on unless I see a
board member that has something else to
say.
>> So, we'll just keep it on the agenda for
a future meeting.
>> Um, is that what you want to do, Rob?
>> Well, I don't know how long it'll take
uh to circle back on this. That's all
I'm saying is I don't want it to fall
through the cracks again and like six
months pass and nobody remembers what we
talked about. You know what I mean?
That's all.
>> No, sounds perfect. like
>> Go ahead.
>> I will contact the auditors uh tomorrow
and as soon as I I mean he's in audit
season now. He's normally pretty quick
about um responding and as soon as I get
a response I will send it out to the
board.
>> Thanks Cheryl.
>> Thank you Cheryl.
>> Sounds good. Thank you for everything
tonight Cheryl.
>> It's been helpful.
>> Um I'm going to move on to item six on
our agenda. Approval of meeting minutes.
I don't know if you know we have quite a
quite a large stack. I don't know if um
we want to go through them one at a time
or um maybe you know,
you know, does anyone
I read them
>> and I
I mean they look fine to me. There was
one one word that need that's a typo
that should be corrected on the July
23rd meeting
under number five board open discussion.
Just one, as a matter of fact, it's
about the Mnt Bank. Um there's just a a
simple little typo in the word give. Um
needs to be corrected, but um I don't
know if anybody else analyzed these.
>> What What month was that, Liz? But um
>> this was March 20, I'm sorry, July 23rd.
July 23rd.
>> Yeah. The third line in item 5A,
the Norton fund, 123, the word give is
uh there was a typo there. There's a B
and it should be a V.
But in terms
>> Yes, I definitely went through them
myself, too. I didn't see anything that
stuck out. I thought that we were
getting a little bit more detail
um in them. So, I think that's good.
>> Yeah, I think it's great. I um read
through them myself. They're fine.
>> Yeah, me, too.
>> Good. All right, then. If someone wants
to make a motion to approve all of them,
maybe we should approve all of them
except the last one, and we'll make a
separate motion to that one, approving
it with the correction that Liz brought
up.
>> That would be fine. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
I mean, I'll go ahead and make a motion
to
um accept and approve the minutes as
presented for, let's say, March 26,
2025, the April 23rd, 2025, the May 7th,
2025 special meeting minutes, the June
11th, 2025 special meeting minutes, and
the June 25th, 2025 regular meeting
minutes as presented to the board.
>> Second.
>> I'll second that. Okay. So, Kim Persan
will second the motion. Any further
direction uh discussion?
>> Well, I only have one problem with that
is I was at all the meetings except for
the June 25th meeting. So, I would have
to abstain on that one set of minutes.
So, if we
>> I guess if we did each set of minutes
individually, I can go on each set of
minutes as opposed to having to abstain
from all of the minutes.
>> Thank you, Bill. Sorry.
>> That's the only one I wasn't available
to be at. So,
>> I mean, I can cut it down to the do the
first four and do the last two separate.
>> Yeah. Yeah. If you could just approve
the first
>> 25th.
>> All right. So, that motion's off the
table. Wipe that one out. So, we're
going to go ahead and make a motion to
approve the meeting minutes for the
March 26, 2025 regular meeting. Uh the
April 23rd, 2025 regular meeting
minutes, the May 7th, 2025 special
meeting minutes, and the June 11th, 2025
special meeting minutes. I I second that
motion.
>> All right. This time, Bill seconds that
um motion. Bill D. Rogers. And then
discussion.
>> Calling for a vote. Um and are we
approving the motion to accept the
minutes?
>> All in favor say I. I.
>> All in favor say I. I'm not a little
tired. Okay.
>> Thank you. So that that motion passes by
a vote of six to nothing. All members
present voted in favor of it.
>> So now you should carry just this the
June ones separately because I can't on
June.
>> So now we're moving on to approval of
the June 25th, 2025 regular meeting
minutes. Um
Oh, I guess I'll make a motion to
approve.
>> Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
>> Yeah, you guys go ahead.
>> Okay. I'll make a motion to approve the
June 25th, 2025 regular meeting minutes.
>> Okay. Loc has a has um made the motion
and Rob England seconds that motion.
Further discussion?
>> Seeing none calling for a vote on that.
>> I.
>> All in favor say I.
>> Okay. So that one is
>> you have to say all opposed and all
abstain.
>> Bill D. Rogers will abstain because he
was not there. Sorry.
>> All right. So that one will also pass
five to nothing or will pass five to
nothing. Now we're going for
>> one
>> 5 to one, right? 501.
>> Sorry, I thought I mentioned
>> and we need a motion to approve the July
minutes with the typo correction.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, I will I will make a motion
to approve the July 23rd, 2025 regular
meeting minutes
with a word corrected in item 5A under
the Norton fund. Mnt Bank would give a
higher interest rate. The word give
to be corrected to GIV.
Perfect.
>> We have a second.
>> Okay. Rob England has seconded Liz
Locach's uh motion. And now any
discussion on that?
>> Okay, we're going to take a vote. All in
favor say I.
>> I.
>> Okay, that motion also passes by a vote
of six to nothing with all members
present. Thank you very much. So, we
will we have done our business there.
Let's move on to item seven on our
agenda. Board open discussion. Did
anyone have anything they wanted to
bring up tonight?
>> Uh CIP was canceled, so nothing to
discuss there.
>> Okay, great.
>> We didn't have anything on our agenda,
so
>> thank you, Rob. Seeing nothing else, we
will move on to item number eight, which
is correspondence.
Um I don't know any that was brought
forward. Um so we're all set there.
Moving on to item number nine on our
agenda. That would be public speak
again. So Diane, go go go ahead. You're
up.
>> If you have any
>> Thank you very much. Um first I'd like
to thank Cheryl for um contacting the
auditor and I I must confess that I am
not a a bean counter finance guru and I
didn't understand most of what she said.
But, um, I think as long as the the
board of finance understands it and is
good with it, uh, that that'll be fine
with me. Um, I also like to thank, uh,
Louise for bringing that up to the
Norton Commission to find out like
what's going on. Yeah, we would like,
you know, I 2% versus 0.01 or whatever.
That seems like an easy vote. Um,
I did want to mention, uh, Cheryl had
talked about the, um, the friends of the
library, you know, a separate account
from the the, um, from the library. And
yes, the the friends of the library is a
uh, C um, corporation, totally separate
from the from the town, from the
libraries. It's its own entity and their
only purpose is to provide funds and
services to the library, but it has
nothing to do with the town's finances
or it's a it's a separate corporation.
So, um that's how that works. And to
have the garden club or some other group
in town have their own um 5013C or you
know, that ain't going to happen. um to
just the the the the legal fees to to
have that set up would be not going to
happen. To have an individual um open up
their own bank account, you know, first
it's going to require somebody's social
security. It ain't going to be mine. Um
and the way boards and commissions are,
you know, they they move around a lot.
Who who's got the account um access to
it? Um I think it'd be a little loosey
goosey. there'd be no real oversight and
um I personally wouldn't want to have
anything to do with something like that.
Um and the the other point was um the
Norton Commission again I was chairman
of the Norton Commission for several
years so I have uh some understanding of
how that works and I agree with Cheryl
that we have all those um bequests and
stuff like that where people have left
us money and it's very defined as to how
you can spend it. you can only spend the
interest and things like that. Um, but
there's also there's
I don't know three, four, five people
every year make a donation
through the town treasurer to the Norton
Commission for no specific reason. It's
just here's a $100 donation to the
Norton Commission and it could be spent
on scholarships. It can be spent on
backpacks. The Norton Commission decides
what they're going to do with it. So,
it's not donated to any specific thing,
just to the Norton Commission to use as
they want. And that's the kind of thing
that I was looking for for
other boards and commissions. And let
there be no mistake that the community
garden, the beautifification committee
are boards and commissions of the town
of Vandover. They are a town entity with
a budget line item. So, other than that,
I I think that just covers all
everything that I need to say. Um, but I
do appreciate you taking it up. And um,
thank you, Cheryl, for going to the
auditor and getting his uh, take on it.
And like I say, I'm sure that board
members here seem to understand what's
going on. And, uh, that's good enough
for me. So, thank you very much.
>> Thanks so much, Diane, for your input
and uh, bringing it to our attention.
And we all learned something more
tonight, too, because of it. So, thanks
for bringing it up. and it'll, like Rob
said, it'll move on to another future
agenda item and we'll get some kind of
answers and take it from there. My only
suggestion just real quick while we cl
Oh yeah, I'm through with the the public
speak part is I mean if it is people
that are coming together working on the
garden, I wonder if people would just
donate items, you know, instead of money
because they all work together on it. I
don't pretend. Just a thought, you know,
instead of money having to be funneled,
if they just go purchase it and bring
the items and work together on it, but
that's a discussion for another day.
Just a thought I had while you were
talking.
>> Um um I want to mention um it's more for
people outside of the community garden
who help out the volunteers and all
that. I think that's that's where most
of the the money is coming from and the
donations and all that other as well.
>> Yeah. Not from committee members.
>> Yeah. Not from Yeah. Not from people
using it though.
>> But I'm saying well that's even people
could find out what's needed and they
could purchase the item and give it to
the member is what I'm thinking. I don't
know. That's more what I was thinking.
So clearly I you have a lot more
knowledge on it than I do. So it'll be
brought up on another you know once we
get some information on it. Um seeing no
more people available for public speak.
Would someone like to make an um motion
to adjourn the meeting? Louise, go
ahead. Louise Goodwin makes a motion to
adjourn the meeting. I'm going to I'm
not sure if I have to stay state the
time at 8:07. Rob, are you
>> second it
>> seconding the motion to adjourn the
meeting at 8:07. I will stop the
recording and um you have to vote first.
You have to Oh, I do this every time.
All right. Uh let's go to vote to
adjourn the meeting.
>> All in favor say I.
>> That is a six to nothing I think. Kim,
are you in favor? Yes. So six to
nothing. Thank you to adjourn the
meeting at 8:07 still. Um good night
everyone. I will recording. Take care.
>> Thank you.
>> Pause recording.
Yes.